---
title:   Feminism
subtitle:
date:    2016-05-23 11:49:42
layout:  post
author:  kate_nicolaisen
categories: Company
cover_image: feminism.png
permalink:  feminism/
importance: 2
---

# Blog Post: Feminism
Feminism and diversity are topics that are not only close to my heart - They are key elements forming the very foundation of Honeypot as an organisation. The benefits of diversity in business are unquestionable: significantly higher profits, superior performance, better understanding and alignment with customer needs - and the list goes on. 

We Honeypotters actively seek, participate and involve ourselves in the gender diversity and equality topic, and we frequently attend debates, conferences and meetups around Berlin such as [“Women Who Code”][1]{:target="_blank"} or “Role Models”. In fact, as we hosted our third HR in Tech meetup, the main attraction of the evening was a panel discussion on gender diversity in tech.

Therefore it felt natural only natural to tie up loose ends with this piece, which will evaluate two significant TED Talks on feminism and women in tech in the context of our own panel discussion and a recent Role Model meetup featuring Katharina Borchert, the new Chief Innovation Officer at Mozilla. 

<iframe src="https://embed-ssl.ted.com/talks/reshma_saujani_teach_girls_bravery_not_perfection.html" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>
The first TED Talk is called [“Teach Girls Bravery - Not Perfection”][2]{:target="_blank"}, and it perfectly explains what I’ve heard just too many times before: girls are conditioned to be perfect and well-behaved, while boys are encouraged to take risks, compete and “seek danger”. The result? Well, it goes deeper than girls playing with Barbies and boys with cars and guns - it follows us into adulthood, and the effects are uncanny. An example brought up both in the TED Talk and by Katharina Borchert is how differently men and women approach job applications; men will apply for any job, even if they only fit 60% of the description, while women will only apply for jobs if they posses 100% of the desired skills and qualifications. So much potential is being lost, due to fear of failure. 

This leads us to the second TED Talk “Why do Ambitious Women have Flat Heads?” by Dame Stephanie Shirley - an incredible women who established the first all-women, tech company in the 1960’s, when there were no real opportunities for women to build a career. She was met by a lot of resistance, both because of the nature of the company (selling software in a time, when software was given away for free with hardware) and for being a women. She eventually reached a stage where she would call herself “Steve” just to get a foot in the door, and she was constantly met with excuses for why her company wasn’t a “real business”. When the company first launched it was faced with the criticism “it only works because it’s small”, after substantial growth the argument was “there’s no strategy - until the company was valued at 3 billion dollars and businessmen finally caved in saying “Well done, Steve”. 

Women are terrified of failing and who wouldn’t be, considering the structure of business today? Women are highly underrepresented, and many times women tend to be the “odd one out” amongst men - Katharina Borchert described it as “being exotic”. So it’s no wonder, women want to ensure that they as the only female represent their gender in the best possible way avoiding any mistakes or errors - but why? It has already been proved over-and-over again that gender diversity is good for performance and the bottom line, so why do women have to be perfect? There are plenty of average men in business - women should be allowed to be average too. 


[1]: https://twitter.com/wwcodeberlin "Women Who Code"
[2]: http://www.ted.com/talks/reshma_saujani_teach_girls_bravery_not_perfection#t-742311 "Teach Girls Bravery - Not Perfection"