---
title:   HR Tips
subtitle:
date:    2018-03-06 13:10:16
layout:  post
author:  emma_tracey
categories: [HR Tips]
cover_image: hr-trends-2018.png
permalink:  hr-trends-2018/
importance: 2
---

# Our Take On HR Trends For 2018

Venture capital and private equity companies invested $1.87 billion in HRTech  during the past two years. The increasing expenditure on HR and workforce-related products demonstrates the will to modernize - an effect which is spurred by demographic shifts and changes in workplace expectations.

<!--more-->

## What are the top trends shaping HR in 2018?

<br /> 

In 2018, HR teams are focusing on employee experience, building team-driven environments, and employee integration. And as people analytics explodes so too does the need for HR teams to become data compliant. There’s never a dull moment in People Operations - here are my top five trends shaping Human Resources in 2018.

<br /> 

## Employee Experience, contd.  

<br /> 

Employee Experience integrates three core concepts: engagement, culture and performance management. The drivers of engagement and culture are complex, but continuous listening to employees and clear structures for performance management help companies to create inspiring environments.

<br />  

According to research from Towers Watson, stressed employees take an average of 4.6 sick days per year compared to 2.6 days for employees who have low levels of stress. Josh Bersin notes: 

<br /> 

“Well-run companies now understand that in a sense, employees are more important than customers— because when employees are managed effectively, customers tend to be happier. Employee engagement data, manager feedback, coaching, and social recognition are all different forms of feedback, so ultimately they belong in one place.”

<br /> 

Employee engagement platforms (Peakon, Qualtrics), pulse feedback tools (15Five, Culture Amp) employee wellness apps (Castlight Health) and productivity tools (Evernote, Trello)  are becoming central to the modern HR stack. 

<br /> 


Josh Bersin, a leading industry analyst with a focus on enterprise learning and talent management, recommends an integrated approach to employee experience. He considers meaningful work, hands-on management, a humane environment, growth opportunities and trust in leadership to be important pillars of employee engagement. 
